High in this video we're going to take a quick look at the fall.
Now I want to first of all discuss the full loop in other languages in case you've actually used them
before and run across them in languages like C C shell Java and so on and Javascript because this is
kind of the way that for loops might be written.
So forth when you declare some kind of loop variable maybe and you start it at some initial value.
So that is code that will run one time before the loop starts executing.
Next you have the condition for the loop to continue executing.
So you might have that say I was less than five.
So every time that the loop finishes its code block it goes back to the beginning and it checks that
condition if that condition is true.
It will then execute the for loop again.
And then finally we have a piece of code that gets run at the end of every iteration.
So very often you know this is how it's kind of written.
And then you have your code block in here and you know that's when you'll know.
So that's how loops follows work in many other languages and C-style languages.
But of course that's not at all the same in Python Python.
The Python for loop in this kind of state doesn't exist.
There is no such thing.
So before we get to that I want to then define something called an interval now an interval and I'll
just put in this definition right here in the notebook that you can download.
But an interval is an object capable of returning values one at a time.
So iterable.
And please note I didn't say that an interval was a collection of values that could be returned one
at a time.
I just said an interval is an object capable of returning values one at a time and we'll see what that
means when we start looking into things like iterators and generators later in the in this course.
But it's not quite the same thing as a just a list of stuff.
Now lists are pit bulls.
Right.
So we have lots of objects in Python that are edible tadpoles or iterable strings or iterable and many
others.
So let me go back to this piece of code right here because I just want to show you that although we
don't have those this is something that basically just does repetition.
The for loop is something that will allow us to iterate over an interval so it will basically go and
get the next value.
You know as it's running the loop which is not the same thing as this thing over here.
Now we do we can write this equivalent in Python.
And the way to do it is to use the Wildblue.
So the while loop is probably the closest thing that you'll find to the full two of these other C-style
languages which also have a WHILE loop too.
And in fact in those languages you can always rewrite a follow as a Wild.
Because it really just means that it does certain things.
So if I wanted to rewrite this over here specifically in Python then I would write it this way.
Equals zero.
Then the next thing is we have to do a while loop and we want to continue running as long as I'm less
than 5 k.
So here we go.
Now we need to do our code block.
I'm just going to print.
I came.
Now the next thing is that this is the piece of code that runs after the end of each iteration.
Well that's what we have to do here we have to increment high or we don't have a plus plus operator
in Python but we can write it as I plus equals 1.
Now the only difference is that once this fall loop has finished executing the i variable goes out of
scope it goes away basically it gets discounted.
And so we can do the same thing.
We can just say equals none.
Now you'll see that later on when we take a look at memory and memory references you'll see that we
don't actually need to do this.
This will actually get done for us automatically and in certain cases actually this will not even help.
So you know your on this.
This is it.
So we have the same four.
But of course that's not what the for statement is in Python.
It is something to iterate over and iterable now and iterable a very simple interval operable that you
can create is by using the range function.
So you've probably seen this before.
For i in range let's say 5 and then we'll print.
And there we go 0 1 2 3 4.
So you might think that hey this is exactly the same as this over here.
It's not again this fall loop was in fact run using code that looks like this.
This is different.
This is using an adorable object range 5 which is iterable and when it runs its loop it just basically
calls the next day you know it asks the object here for the next value and then it puts that value in
I and then we have that value available in the loop and languages like Java.
You have the for each right for x in some object collection.
So if you've done Java before and you're aware of that this is more what the for in Python does.
It basically iterates and iterable.
I'm not saying a collection just uneatable range is not a collection range is not a list.
And we'll take a much closer look at all that in detail later on in the schools.
Of course lots of other objects are iterable as well so high in range and use Range.
Let's say we use a list right so we can do one two three four and we can say print I.
And again here we go with print that we can say for C in a hello.
So a string is just a roll.
We can get each character one by one.
There we go for you know in hello we get the string and so on.
You can even use tables to avoid trouble as well solve for x in A B C.
So we're going to top all that contain them for a number just for good measure and we can print X and
we just get the individual elements of the top.
Now of course you can also have more complex objects listed in and iterable type.
So for example you might have 4 x in and here I'm going to do a list containing couples.
So let's say one comma to prevent a four five to six.
Right.
So this list contains tables.
And when we print X you'll see that we actually get that topples back.
Now of course we can unpack the top or we might say Eircom and J.
So it's going to take each topple and it's going to take the first element of the top or put it in.
I think the second element of the table and put it in J.
So now we can do things like this.
And we actually as you can see we were extracting the individual elements of each table that was returned.
Every time that the next object was requested in the fall.
So we'll take a look at that in lot more detail as well later on.
Now the break and the continuous statements work just the same as with the while loop.
So if we have something like for I in range 5 if I equals let's say 3 will continue.
And otherwise we'll print.
OK.
So basically this should skip when I equals three and they would go 0 1 2 three but it's for continued
running the loop.
Now we can take the same thing and sort of do and continue if we do break then you'll notice that we
stop right.
So we exited the loop at that point so we stop iterating at that point
k.
Now you also have the L squalls so we can do something like this for I in range and I'll start at 1
and 4 and we'll print this to see what's going on and then we'll do this if I Mada let's say seven equals
zero print multiple of seven found.
OK.
And what we'll do here is we'll break.
So we're going to exit out of the loop so once we hit the first multiple of seven we'll break out of
the loop.
OK.
Now in this case are we going to hit the multiple of seven.
Well no because we're going to have really you know we're going to be iterating over the numbers 2 3
and 4.
So that's never going to happen.
Let's put in a break statement and well what's going to happen is to reach the else statement.
How does that get reached.
Well it only gets reached if we never hit the break.
So it means we didn't find a multiple of seven so we can just write no multiples of seven in the brain
game something like that.
So if we run this you'll see that we are printing out all the numbers here.
One two three four and we're exhausted the loop.
Right.
We're exhausted we ran through this range one through five.
So one for inclusive.
And we didn't find a multiple of seven so the else brand.
Now if we make this little larger let's call it age that we include seven there then you'll see that
we found a multiple of seven.
Now of course there's better ways of actually finding you know who have a multiple of seven in a range
but this is good enough as an example of the break and the else and how they work together.
Also if you use a try catch inside the for loop it works exactly the same way as with the WHERE clause.
The final statement will execute whether you put break or continue inside your try catch statements.
The Finally will still execute if those getting counted.
So let's take a look at a quick example for I in range to again range 5
and we're just going to print out some characters to indicate the beginning of the loop so we can see
what's going on.
And we're going to try doing this.
We're going to try 10 divided by I'm minus three.
So when I 3 we're going to hit a problem we're going to have a division by zero error.
So we're going to catch that.
So we're going say except 0 division.
Make I spell error correctly this time and we'll print divided divided by zero.
OK.
And we're going to continue the loop we're not going to break out of it but we're going to stop that
current iteration and move onto the next one.
We don't want to deal with you know when we have a value of either that's going to cause a division
by zero.
And then we want to do something though we're going to put the finally in.
Now all this is kind of you know not exactly practical code but it's good to illustrate what's happening.
So finally it's just going to print always run.
I would love to write anything like that in your code.
You can do something that handles you know maybe closing a connection maybe handle some open transactions
whatever it is you can put in there.
OK.
And then we're going to print it in the main body of the block of the of the loop lock.
OK so if we run this let's see what happens.
So you'll notice that no error happens here.
So we printed the beginning of the loop right.
This was the print the beginning of the iteration.
We didn't get a division by zero error.
And then finally round something with when I was.
And then we printed out which was zero.
Then we did the same thing again.
So we start the loop again.
We print always run we print I which was 1 etc. when we hit 0 then look what happened.
Right.
We printed.
First of all the beginning of the loop right here.
Then we printed divided by zero.
Right here.
Now we don't put a continuum here.
So technically we should have gone immediately to the beginning of the next loop but that didn't happen.
What happened is that we printed all was wrong and then we went to the beginning of the next loop that
there are a standard number of techniques that you can use to iterate over iterable.
So the standard one which we saw just now is the one for C in S and then we print C and so we get that.
What you don't get here is the index.
If you're talking about a iterable that is indexable right that has indexes.
For example a string or a list or a tuple all these are intervals that also have an index.
You can talk about the first element and the second element and the third element.
You can talk about that when you talk about sets of sets and we'll see all this later in detail but
sets up iterable dictionaries.
The iterable but they don't have an index you can talk about the first element of the set or the first
element of the dictionary.
There is no concept of first and last.
You know there is no ordering of objects inside a set or inside a dictionary but they are still ignorable.
You can still you know start somewhere and then just call next to get the next thing.
But we'll see how it works exactly with sets and dictionaries it's a little different because sets.
Well dictionaries have keys and values and the keys actually are iterable and the values can be in trouble.
And then you can also iterate over the key value pairs but it works just a little differently.
But it's full iterable using a full.
This is a little different.
This has an index right.
We can say that H is at index of 0 and 1 is at index 1 and so on.
So we want to be able to get the index back.
So you might be tempted to write something like this.
Right.
So we have cycles.
Hello I call 0 foreseen as and now we're going to iterate C over s and we're going to print this I which
is going to be our index and we know we started 0.
So our first index will be zero.
We'll print the character and then we'll increment eyes.
So when we do this we get zero.
H one was e to is L-3 as l forests o k.
So that works I mean there's nothing wrong with this piece of code but you have something that you can
do that might be a little simpler which is to just use indexing.
So you might do something like this instead let's try again as equals.
Hello and here we're going to say for I in and here we're going to use a range and we're going to range
over with.
Well we're going to range from zero to the length of the string as minus one.
The last index will be the line of S minus one.
Right.
So the range will be from 0 to lend as minus 1 because as we know the high number here in the range
is not inclusive.
K so if we do that we can then print.
And as I said That's another way of doing it.
We run this we get the exact same thing.
That's just another way of doing that.
But there's an even better way that we can use.
Now again I'm not saying this is wrong it is not it's perfectly fine code it's fine.
This is where this code works but it might be a little easier to write and understand what's going on
here.
So I come in and we're going to use a special function in Python called enumerate that can work and
it will actually return the index and the element.
So it's going to basically do this kind of thing that we did here manually.
And here it's going to do that for us.
So it's just a little cleaner and we can print.
I can see and enumerate returns or topple the top all the first element of the top of the index.
The second element of the table is the actual value that we're getting back from the iteration.
And so we can store that into two local variables.
And when we do that we get the same thing.
So that's the numerator function.
Very handy and it saves you having to write this kind of code over here which although perfectly fine.
This is a little simpler.
It's also quicker to read and easier to understand what's going on.
You're enumerating as here I'd have to say OK you are declaring you know equal to zero.
And then you're just incremental.
OK so that's the index you have to read the code a little bit and spend some time understanding what
it does.
Whereas this is immediately obvious what you're doing because it's a standard function and we know what
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.